This library, developed by J.-F. Dufourd from University of
Strasbourg, formalizes the combinatorial hypermaps and their
properties in a constructive way. It gives the proofs of the Genus
Theorem and of the Euler Formula for the polyhedra which are modeled
by hypermaps.

Mathematically speaking, a hypermap is a set (of darts) equipped with
two permutations. This notion helps to model the combinatorial
topology of oriented closed surface subdivisions - or polyhedra - in
vertices, edges and faces. Let s, e, f, c be the numbers of vertices,
edges, faces, components of a surface subdivision. The Genus Theorem
says that the genus g = c - (s - e + f)/2 of the surface is a non
negative integer. When g = 0, the polyhedra is said to be planar and
satisfies the Euler Formula: s - e + f = 2.

The formalization in Coq is based on a hierarchy of map types defined
by invariants. The free maps, inductively defined with three
constructors, constitute the basis of the hierarchy. The
quasi-hypermap form a subtype of the free maps which model hypermaps
with incomplete orbits. Finally, the hypermaps are viewed as closed
quasi-hypermaps.

Operations are mostly defined by pattern matching and proofs are
mostly driven by induction on the type fmap of the free maps.

- Euler1.v contains the basic specifications of the free maps,
  quasi-hypermaps and hypermaps, the definition of their operations
  and the proofs of their properties.

- Euler2.v contains the definitions and the results on the closure of
  quasi-hypermaps into hypermaps, on the faces and on the paths in
  faces.

- Euler3.v contains the definitions of the equivalence in hypermaps,
  on the numbering and characteristics in hypermaps. It gives the
  proofs of the Genus Theorem and of the Euler Formula under the form
  of a sufficient condition of planarity. The file ends with the proof
  of a necessary constructive condition of planarity using a unique
  axiom.

For further informations, the reader can refer to the paper "Genus
theorem and Euler formula: A hypermap-formalized intuitionistic
proof", to appear in Theoretical Computer Science, Elsevier, 2008., or
send a mail at: dufourd@lsiit.u-strasbg.fr.
